This is a ordered sequence of refelctions on the process of building the DoggyApp. Many are being done well after the time that I wrote the code but these are the 
learning expereinces that stuck with me. 

Cloud Formation Development
I was struck by how well developed the AWS documentation is. Using CLoudFormation you are able to see all details of the configuration of the resource you are 
provisioning, these details link to fuller documation on the details of each resource and service, and it is all layed out in yaml format so you can just understand 
it at the level of what you're coding by looking at it. Choosing to begine with CloudFormation was a good choice becuase it gave me a full grasp of the configuration 
option of each resource and provided a detailed understanding of the capabilities and use of the AWS platform. Still to this day whenever I need to provision something 
I will default to writing the code in CloudFormation and deploying it from there. This way I only have to memorize a single command, I can specify all details of the 
resource I am provisioning and know exactly what it is and delete it afterwards with the assurance that all traces of it will be gone, with the added benefit of being 
ability to see all of my resources in the CloudFormation console, my full 1 stop location to see all resources in my entire AWS environment. If a resource fails to 
deploy I can see the stack trace and if I need to automate its deployment I can put it into an Ansible Script. It is so incredibly helpful to have everything written 
down, to know what it is, and to automate its deployment, and also to be able to pass variables out of CloudFormation and into Ansible so that they can be used in a 
larger script. 

Debugging CloudFormation 
Keeping track of variables is key in CloudFormation, you need to make sure that variable names are passed properly so that dependencies can build on each other. 
It can become a bit of a convoluded mess whe you have to take a variable out of the Stack, pass it into the Master File, then from the Master file and into another 
Stack, and there are three different stacks that all have a dependency that needs to be passed in. This was a source of mild frustration where a variable name didn't
match. AI has been helpful in solving this, it is a simple thing for an AI to just check variable names and make sure that they are consistent, becuase it is just a 
"grep" command for them. But there are also architectural challenges the first being permissions AWS IAM roles and users need to be crafted to make sure that the CF 
script is able to run. At one point I was manually running the pipeline for my K8s cluster over and over and copy pasting the perission error (containing the missing
permission) into my IAM role for the pipeline. This was painful, but better than allowing * permissions. Stack Overflow and online tutorials were a helpful resource 
to get myself off the ground, AI was much less developed at the time, and for something as important as permissionos I wouldn't entirely trust it becuase I wouldn't 
want my personal account to be suseptable to escalation attacks. But the process familiarised me with tracing logs in CF and using them to debug. It also familiarised 
me with the different permissions used in EKS, EC2, Secrets, Keys and other services.

CodePipeline 
This was my first taste of CI/CD it gave me knowledge of the different build phases. I was surprised that all it is is running linux commands. I saw that Code Build 
provisions a linux instance. Then you run to Lint and build commands and are able to see the logs for each command so you can follow where it broke. Lint runs a 
simple linter over the CF code to make sure that it is valid, then builds the master yaml file for CF, saves it to an S3 Bucket which can be used for versioning, 
though I didn't, and then CodePipeline takes that built file and runs it though CF to deploy. I really got a sense of how useful this was by developing the script 
in tandem with the Pipeline. Like it made the whole process so much faster to just press a button and see if it works, and to get specific logs and visions on where 
the breakdowns were happening. I don't understand how anyone ever built anything functional without a pipeline. It was also good to see the security that goes in 
place in a pipeline, creating web hooks, adding permissions to the GitHub API and handling keys. The whole process of validating the process, a lot can be automated, 
but security cannot be, becuase it requires a human who owns the process to allow the automation. 

VPC setup 
This required me to learn the fundamental of networking, I earned my CCNA so that I could go back and validate this. WHen I wrote it I was copying tutorials and didn't
even know that 172.16.0.0 IP addresses were private. This made it difficult to know that Kube clusters are meant to be in private subnets, I didn't know about DMZs and
that that is what I was building. But earning my CCNA made going back to this and reviewing my work much more meaningful. I learned a lof of the fundamentals of route 
tables, VPC, Subnets and how implement them and string them together. The point of having public vs private subnets, especially now that I have a loadbalancer standing 
in front of everything. It also taught me about security groups, EC2 images and launch templates, setting up the management bastion required me to grapple with the size 
of it and having to grow it to really start developing the application and not just the environemnt, it went from a t3Medium to be t3Large to meet the memory requirements. 
I didn't know what UserData was before but knowing that I could run a script at start up made the process of automation very obvious. 

Kubernetes Set Up 
This was a difficult one to wrap my head around. I had done simple things like written pods and services locally, but there is a lot more going into a cloud deployment. 
One of the first decision I had to make was on log collection and if i would hook my cluster up to CloudWatch or other AWS services i decided not to becuase of the cost. 
I felt that I hadn't run into a use case for it yet and so I would cross that bridge when I got there. I did end up using grafana and prometheus for monitoring later 
though after i had built the cluster the first thing I wanted was insight into it so that coudl see in detail what it was that I had built and how it was working. I 
felt that as the development process continued this sort of insight (especially as this was the first cluster I had built and I didn't know what I was doing), would be 
valuable. However the first hurdle was accessing the cluster. I was trying to use my Admin User profile to access the cluster naively thinking that it had permissions 
to EKS all resources and so that would allow me to enter. This was not the case. You need the role of the Entity or user who created the cluster to access the RBAC. 
This meant that I needed to use my pipeline role (the creating entity) to access the RBAC. From here I was able to edit the RBAC to add the Admin user to the cluster 
and begin management of it. With this the Admin has access to EKS commands (outlined in the IAM role), and now also has RBAC access to the Kube commands (the EKS 
commands will not run without RBAC access, though you can run Kube commands without IAM permissions but with RBAC). But with the Admin having access to both this role 
was able to set up periferal AWS services to enable the full set up of the cluster. Additionally, this Admin requires sign on and 2-factor authenitcation (using IAM 
Idenitty Center) securing the Cluster behind a sturdier wall. The Ansible script for this is in the Kubernetes Architecture. 

Ansible 
Writting an Ansible script was incedibly helpful for the process of deploying the application. Not only does it resure me that I can fix any issue if I accidently delete 
something I shouldn't (which I did once). It also means that (in the early stages) I can delete my entire application and redploy it exactly as it was. It seems like 
good hygene to have a record of all changes that can be reimplemented at any point. The key being that it is indempotent, meaning that no matter what breaks you can 
run the script and it will fix it and leave everything else as is. It is the ultimate tool for self healing and version control. The flip side to this is that I also 
have a Breakdown script that will delete everything. This gives me great peace of mind to know that I will have no remaining surprise billing from stragling resources. 

Prometheus Grafana Loki 
In this setup I encorporated monitoring, as I said I felt it important to have insight into what I had built. I was unfamiliar with the technology I was using and 
for all I knew it could be experiencing disastrous errors and having all sorts of problems. For this I learned about Helm. It was an extremely convenient tool for 
provisioning the monitoring suit. All I had to do was write the configuration files correctly and it was able to implement them with a single command. What I found 
suprising about this process was how modular it all was, I just have to input the correct file names for where the logs where coming from and wire it up to Loki's API, 
then wire up Loki's API to the Prometheus end point. You can deploy all of these in any order and it will work, none of them are dependent on each other. The worst 
that will happen is that messages get sent to an end point that doesn't exist (which happened a number of times). But i found that the cleanest way to set up the 
environment was just to write detailed configuration files. Going into the Grafana gui and setting things up from there is going to be error prone, if you understand 
the configuration files you can do so much and just have it all work from an Ansible script so if you delete your instance of prometheus, single button click and you 
have all of your alert rules back and running as if nothing happened, it's good disaster recovery. 

The second thing that struck me was how versatile the prometheus language is for detecting key words in logs and generating alerts off of them as well as being able to
generate alerts based off of metrics. I was mainly curious about how to use them and knowing that my application was going to be published to the open internet I decided 
to create simple alerts that detected the word "error" in my Spring and Angular applications, hoping to catch any foul play or just problems with the application. 

The alerting pod 
It was awesome to see in real time how helpful monitoring is for security. I connected my montoring suit to a Gunicorn webhook which took these alerts fed them through 
OpenAI and sent me information on what caused them. No sooner did this go live than I started recieving multple alerts in my Angular application from bots entering 
URLs into my application like "/production-server". This prompted me to learn more about what was going on and how to resolve the issue. I had no idea that these 
things where everywhere for one. But also I figured out that the best practice for dealing with it was to create a "not found" page where these sorts of requests 
could gracefully go fuck themselves. I also implemented rate limiting on the Loadbalancer. This expereince does give me a new appreciation for the depth that log 
analysis can go, this was a very simple script and caught a very simple attack, and I realise the need for more knowledge on how to implement stronger log analysis 
to catch more complex attacks, and also to be aware that logs can be altered and to incorporate metrics into a defensive posture. I see a lot of room for me to grow 
in using monitoring suits. 

Moving on to development of the application 
This is where I started vibe coding a lot, I bought Claude and have been using Claude code in my IDE. It was sort of ridiculous to see how fast it was able to produce 
code that I actually had to slow down and realize that I was losing track of my code base at times. Things like catching errors in its work and making sure that it was
secure made me realise that I needed a pipeline, so after getting the bare bones out of the way, the first thing I did was set up GitLab on my Managemnt bastion and 
create pipelines for the application. 

GitLab 
This was anothing thing that AI was helful for, I asked it to write detailed instructions for how to set up GitLab and they were mostly right, but I definately had to
do a lot of leg work to research how to set it up, so I could understand is indepently from an AI synopsis, to ask questions about process and to make my own 
architectural decisions that contradicted the instructions that were fed me. GitLab works the same as CodePipeline in essense. You run a bunch of Linux commands in 
order. The difference was in the complexity of making it run on Kubernetes and as a service hosted on my bastion rather than having that leg work done for me by AWS. 
This entailed installing GitLab on my instance and giving it the permissions TO BE ACCESSED BY the runner and AgentK, there are 2 separate tokens needed to do this. The 
agent token and the runner token. The Runner is like the Linux instance that runs the build script in CodePipeline, it executes the commands, tests the code, runs the 
build, sends it to ECR, and then sends the deployment commands (it cannot deploy itself only the Kube cluster can do that just like CloudFormation the Linux instance does 
not deploy to CloudFormation it sends the command to CF to Deploy). Each phase that the runner executes occurs in its own container. I used a small container for tests 
(a bare node container for the fontend and a bare gradle container for the backends), Kaniko I used for the build phase in both pipelines as it is capable of building 
images without using Docker (the runner is a sequence of of three images 1 for each phase, kube uses docker to deploy each of these three instances if I deployed a docker 
image instead of Kaniko to build the image than I would be deploying docker using docker which creates problems that go over my head, it might just be too  meta?). Kaniko 
is lighter weight than dock and also does the job of sending the image, once built, to ECR (the runner has been given an IAM role scoped to this task). A small alpine 
container loaded with KubeCtl sends the command back to the GitLab instance hosted on the bastion, which readies it for AgentK to call. AgentK is a pod with a RBAC 
permission allowing it to access the Kube API, UNDER A NARROW BAND OF CONFIGURED CONDITIONS (that the GitLab instance has the proper Token and that the project being 
deployed is in the configured allow list). K8s reads this command and executes the deployment. 

Application Architecture 
The application started out monolithic but I quickly realised that it made more sense to break it up into 3 different microservice. The nature of the application of owners
connecting dogs with care organisations to employees under those organisations handling the dogs made it clear that there werer 3 different sets of users; owners, 
organizations and emplyees. Each of these three groups would use the application at different rates, for different purposes, and with different amounts of each type of 
user. A single monolithic architecture for that wouldn't be very sensible. So In the frontend I created 3 services, owner service, user service and organization service 
and I created a backend or each service. This meant that each service handles a single type of user and that each user can authenticate to their repecive backend. 

Coding the application
This is where I was able to take my vibe coding and really test it on the screen that it worked and did what it was supposed to. I resolved errors like lazy initialization,
open up the API calls needed for resistration in SpringSecurity, tweaked the components on the frontend so the features functioned on the frontend how I wanted, and 
filled in end points for features. I got a better sense of how to effectively use AI, like when implementing features I needed to ensure that the API call from the frontend 
traveled all the way to the database, I took a fine toothed approach to developing the application and told it to implement features one API call at a time, ensuring that each 
through line was implemented throughly. I learned to use plan mode for large tasks, I learned that organizing the file structure was helpful to both me and the AI, I learned 
to push after each feature was completed so that I could monitor and debug with the screen, I learned to always try and consolidate code so that you do not have AI writing 
the same thing twice but in different ways (and now you have twice the amount of technical debt). I also learned how to code better, when to use JSON ignore or a DTO, how 
to add local variables so that information about the type of session can be maintained while navigating the single page application, the current NIST guidance for password 
validation and how to implement it, as well as familiarizing myself with coding in a kube environment and looking up logs and debugging. 

Security Considerations in the application 
there were a few benchmarks I wanted to hit and I was checking the AI make sure that they were done correctly. 
1. I wanted the passwords to be encrypted 
2. I wanted the makesure that PII wasn't leaked so I checked the sessions against the database in every API call so that it was certain that if someone was lookinng at a 
piece of information it was tied to what they should be allowed to look at. Like when an Owner calls GetDog to see their own dog the api call is not GetDog(dogId) it is 
GetDog(dogID, OwnerID), and it validates against the database the sessions of the logged in owner so that they can only see their own dog. 
3. I made sure that there was Password validation on the frontend, I used NIST guidelines, the recommendation being that you check the password not for complexity but 
against a list of the most commonly bruteforced passwords to make sure that it is not easily guessed I used an inbuilt dependency in Angluar for this (zxcvbn). I chose 
to do it this way because as a short cut when I was developing I didn't add password validation, and made all of the test passwords "pass" just to make life easier for 
myself. My Norton password manager saved this and 3 second later notified me that my password had been stolen. So I deleted all of the users in my database and started
over with proper validation, using my password manager to save these passwords. 
4. SpringSecurity is configured to only accepts traffic originating from the doggyapp.click address, hopefully meaning that XSRF attacks will be stymied. 
5. I registered an address for the site so that I could attach a certificate to it and connect it to my loadbalancer. This means that it is HTTPS. Which was suprisingly 
easy to do with AWS and Kubernetes as the core technologies. 
6. And sort of obviously, I wanted to use spring and angluar because these frameworks have security built in, like scrubbing SQL injection attacks. 

Cost 
I wanted to be able to afford to host this, so I provisioned the Kube node instances as spot instances and this has shaved off half the cost from my monthy expenses
and only at the cost of kubernetes having to repovision them for me, which it does automatically given that I gave it an Autoscaler through helm. 

Next step 
The Autoscaler that I gave it has backfired on me. For high avaiablity I configured my cluster to extend 2 availability zones, US-East-1a and Us-East-ib. But I provisioned 
by database on an EBS file, this only extends to 1 availablity zone. Meaning that when my stateful set was torn from the spot instance and reestablised in a differnt AZ 
The database failed, becuase the block storage was in the wrong place. For true high availablity I will need to switch from EBS to something better like EFS. 

